Essay 2

Tell us about your current and near-term career-related activities and goals, indicating how you see your current work and study informing your forthcoming academic work and early career goals.

If you are already enrolled in, or have been accepted into the program for which you seek support under this Fellowship, tell us why you chose that program. If you are still applying for one or more programs for which you will seek support under this Fellowship, tell us about the primary considerations that are shaping your aspirations and priorities. (1000 words or less)

I am currently enrolled as a first year medical student at Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons (henceforth P&S). Before visiting Columbia I had my heart set on staying in California, where all of my family and friends live. New York City also intimidated me a bit: it seemed so big, crowded, fast, and impersonal. I was afraid I would get lost in the sea of people. However, as soon as I set foot on campus, I forgot my fear as I [got a taste of/experienced] a community in which people strove to get lost together, in everything from medicine to music to philosophy. I absolutely loved it. Surrounded by the students’ creative energy and curiosity, I found a home outside of my comfort zone that I didn’t even know I was looking for. Now, as a student at P&S, I get to explore medicine while expanding my comfort zone in an environment that is perfect for pushing limits.

One of my favorite things about the program is that it emphasizes maintaining one’s individuality and creativity throughout medical school, and encourages this through the P&S Club, a conglomerate of various student activities and interest groups. I’m part of the Asian Pacific American Medical Student Association, over five medical specialty interest groups, the CUMC Symphony Orchestra, P&S Musicians’ Guild, P&S Basketball Club, Food for Thought, and I am an Interview Housing Liaison and Eco-Rep in our Class Council. It sounds like a lot, but it feels completely normal because so many of my classmates do as much as I do, and we all love it. 

[Music has become a big part of my life once again. After classes, my new friends and I often mess around with cello duets and piano trios together. We play for patients at the rehabilitation center in Milstein Hospital, hopefully bringing them some entertainment after long, arduous days. Improvisation, which is usually quite difficult for me, has become a challenging but magical exercise that we like to do at night--we turn off the lights, focus on a theme, listen to each other, and weave together beautiful melodies and tumultuous cadences in harmony. It’s fun, spontaneous, creative, and full of dialogue. We each take turns leading without exactly knowing what should come next and together blaze a musical trail through the silence. I hope that even beyond medical school, music continues to play a big part in my life as both a creative outlet and a way to connect with others.]

I wasn’t quite sure what to expect before I began classes at P&S, but the Foundations of Clinical Medicine course has already really given me a wealth of additional perspective on the practice of medicine itself. As part of the course talk in intimate small group sessions about how to interview patients to get their whole story, how to practice the art of medicine. As part of the course, I was paired with the chair of Pediatric Palliative Care at the Children’s Hospital for a shadowing clerkship. Just five hours of clerkship has already educated me more than all my hours of clinical experience during my undergraduate years! 

Through observing pediatric palliative care in action, I have grown to appreciate that while modern medicine may be able to offer the capabilities to keep someone “alive,” in the most basic of senses, the role of doctors is not necessarily to postpone clinical death using whatever means available. For example, should a one-year-old baby girl with Down Syndrome and chloromas from leukemia pressing on her brainstem continue to stay in the hospital to undergo a fifth round of possibly futile chloroma treatment, or should her parents bring her home and let her live her last few weeks playing at the park and being with her little brother? In another case, perhaps it would have aligned more with the family’s goals for care if the doctors had not performed a tracheostomy on their dying fourteen year old, who was declining rapidly after a bone marrow transplant, because her impaired speech severely worsened her clinical depression. 

Through involvement in end-of-life situations like these, I have become more conscious of medicine as a service-oriented profession -- that is, again, even though medical treatments exist, using them is not always in the best interest of the patient. There are other things we have to offer as a service. The focus of medicine is to provide care, whether that care is administration of a drug or something as obvious yet complex as a conversation. I have learned from my clerkship that for doctors to provide the best care, they must first understand what patients and their families want for their lives; only then can they can make medical decisions that will best serve patients and help them achieve those goals. I look forward to integrating my clinical experiences with my extensive textbook studies so that I can provide the best care possible for my future patients.

In another facet of my curriculum, I have chosen to pursue a Master’s degree in Biomedical Informatics. The dual program at P&S allows me to hone my research skills through biostatistics courses and bolster my research literacy through clinical and translational research seminars. I am most excited about the program’s dedicated time for conducting a research project in Biomedical Informatics. As soon as I arrived on campus, Dr. Chase, the head of the department, sat down with me for a solid hour discussing the special niche that he and I fill in biomedical research, a role that has and will continue to unlock the potential of technology in medicine.

There are incredible amounts of data available and the world is constantly developing new and improved sequencing and robotics technology. Now is the perfect time for us bioinformaticians to create software that can diagnose tumors in medical images and applications that can increase access to healthcare. Drawing on an understanding of both computer and biomedical sciences, we can examine the genome with incredible depth and complexity and continue to probe its code for mechanisms of disease and targets for treatment. My interdisciplinary background allows me to approach questions from a unique angle with biological mechanisms and clinical knowledge in one hand and algorithms and optimization in the other. I am excited to put my skills to the test and conduct research that will contribute to the advancement of medical knowledge.

My early career goals are simple in that I aim to become a well-rounded, compassionate, and innovative physician with expertise in biomedical informatics. That said, the specifics of my career goals are up in the air: my interests change from week to week, darting between neurosurgery, pediatrics, internal medicine…, the list goes on. However, it’s not because I’m confused or indecisive; it’s because there are so many great mentors at P&S who each inspire me to do what they do. I look forward to the amazing journey that lies ahead of me as I continue to connect with the colorful and dedicated people around me and nourish my passion for learning.
