Essay 1

Tell us about your experiences as a New American – whether as an immigrant yourself or as a child of immigrants – and how those experiences have informed and shaped what you have accomplished so far in your life.

The program is especially interested in accomplishments – in any aspect of your life - that help us understand your originality, initiative and creativity. Feel free to discuss how parents, teachers, mentors and or institutions have supported – or impeded – your progress. If you believe that distinctive features of American governance and society have been important to an understanding of your story, feel free to discuss that as well. (1000 words or less)


In Chinese, "ni" is a flavor that gets old quickly, but not in the same way it gets old when you eat too much of something. You can tell that a dish is "ni" from the first bite. It’s difficult to translate exactly to English. Growing up in an immigrant household, interlacing words like "ni" with English sentences was commonplace. I thus saw the world through two linguistic lenses--while I spoke primarily in English, Chinese gave me a additional frame with which to learn and think about the world.

In high school, after taking some basic neuroscience, this bilingual phenomenon that I experienced first hand started tugging at the scientist in me. I grew increasingly fascinated by the brain, how people learn, and how people perceive the world in so many dimensions through the binary neuron. I wanted to understand the mechanisms behind the brain like I understood how gas travels in capillaries and how the intestine absorbs nutrients. Neuroscience was only so advanced though, the scientific world could not yet answer my questions in full. I wanted to join the search. In the summer after tenth grade, I conducted my first wet lab research at the Learning and Memory Lab at University of California, Irvine, studying the mechanisms of learning at a very basic level in Aplysia (Californian giant sea slugs). By the end of summer, I only had enough data to suggest that a specific protein kinase, MAP kinase, localized at synapses during learning. It was just a single protein in a single pathway, not even in a human but in a giant sea slug. Needless to say, my project left me wanting more, my big questions still unsolved; however, I was proud that I was able to contribute to research that might one day provide some answers.

I went on to college, excited to dive deeper into neuroscience. And dive deeper I did, through further coursework and research; however, as educational as the academics were, the richest part of my education came from the people around me. Living with an Australian roommate, being best friends with the entire Indian dance team Basmati Raas, and having a boyfriend who strongly identified with Taiwanese culture sent a jolt through my core. I had been so busy doing research and studying in books that I hadn't really paid as much attention to my cultural heritage as I could have. The diverse people around me at Stanford reminded me that as much as I was an American, I was also a Chinese descendant with values and traditions that held roots in Taiwanese and Chinese culture. I celebrated Chinese holidays with my family, got nostalgic listening to music sung by Teresa Teng, used Chinese medicines at home, ate foods according to their "hot" or "cold" characteristics, and even practiced my family's superstitions, things like not cutting your hair within a week of the New Year, disliking the number four, and never giving umbrellas to friends as gifts.

As I engaged with the diverse people around me, picking up snippets of their cuisines, cultures, and traditions, I went on a personal journey to reclaim my own. I started by taking Chinese for bilingual students, learning how to read and write Chinese and about pieces of Chinese history. In sophomore year, I discovered ceramics and completely fell in love with throwing pottery, connecting with my cultural heritage through clay--one of the first lidded vessels I threw was a claypot, modeled after the claypots that my mom and grandma used at home to make my favorite pork stews. When I visited Taiwan for the first time in a decade with my boyfriend, his family took me to the Yingge Ceramics Museum, one of the most renowned ceramics museums in the world. Inspired by the incredible ceramic artists of Taiwan, I spent hours in the studio in my senior year creating iterations of bowls, with artistic influences from both Asia and California. 



Also began exploring different cultures through food--vegemite, Indian cuisine, Taiwanese cuisine. And language. Realized that in being a child of immigrants, I had both gained and lost: gained a freedom to pursue happiness and enjoy diversity but lost some of my own cultural heritage. Exposing myself to different cultures around me, but especially Chinese/Taiwanese culture (took Chinese class, Taiwanese teacher. Talked to friends and family about being an Asian American. Traveled to Taiwan with boyfriend and family), spurred me to reflect on where I belonged in the cultural spectrum in America and make an effort to reclaim some of my family’s cultural heritage. Believe that while the United States possesses certain traditions and a unique culture built on capitalism and democracy, part of its culture is the amalgamation of many different cultures, the ability to coexist and build upon each other, even thrive off of our differences. Being part of the melting pot experience has given me the ability to wear different hats and see things easily from different perspectives, understand people who think and live differently than I do.

It’s almost uncanny how my academic experiences mirror my personal experiences almost exactly: I started out in the world of biology, but quickly ___ed into the world of computer science. I barely had time to process what hit me; I had just discovered another subject that I found not only incredibly interesting but also very useful and powerful, but I couldn’t let go of biology and neuroscience. I still loved them and they still felt like a big part of who I was. Fortunately, there existed a middle ground where I had the freedom to study both together: biomedical computation, my personal melting pot for academic interests. My first mentor in the department, the man who started the whole thing, helped me navigate the ocean of biomedical computation and really helped me carve out a career path towards medicine. I also stumbled upon a particularly amazing and ambitious research mentor through the Summer Research Program in Computer Science at Stanford, who was even crazier than I was about using computer science to figure out how the brain works. Amazing experience. And I really felt like I brought something new to the table, with my deep knowledge of neuroscience and research methods in wet lab. As a team, we thought of various ways to explore the same problem, that is, how the brain controls muscles. 

Now in medical school in New York City, at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons (P&S). Up in Washington Heights, I’m living and learning medicine in a neighborhood full of people from the Dominican Republic. I don’t speak Spanish yet--I’m currently taking Beginner Medical Spanish--but I am excited to practice a new language as I learn about another culture. Medicine also has its own long-standing traditions and culture, which I have been initiated into by virtue of being an active medical student at the hospital. Already, through some of my experiences as a medical student, I have recognized that sometimes the cultures of medicine and its patients do not align, rendering medical services ineffective, sometimes even harmful. Example: “non-compliant” parent. Now a member of the medical community, I hope that I can remember my experiences as a new American and keep an open mind. Reconcile differences between the culture of medicine and the beliefs of the individual. 










The first thing you learn in sailing is how to capsize. What’s the worst thing that could happen? The boat flips! But then you climb up on that centerboard, leverage the boat back upright, clamber back into the hull, and catch some more breeze. Many consider capsizing a failure and I completely understand that perspective as a competitive sailor--when I capsize, nine times out of ten, other boats will pass me and I will end up with a horrible score. However, learning how to capsize was also the reason why I loved sailing in the first place, not so much because it meant that I failed, but because it was a symbol of hitting rock bottom. It showed me that hitting rock bottom wasn’t bad at all, that instead it could be full of potential. It’s an opportunity to pick myself back up and start anew, and then I’ll be even more prepared to tackle the next big puff of wind. Having the freedom to fail has allowed me to take risks, learn from my mistakes, and, ultimately, become a better sailor.

Thanks to my parents, I grew up in the United States with this freedom to explore and make mistakes in parts of my life even outside of sailing. I have been able to pursue my curiosities in a way that I can only describe as American. My family has not always been able to indulge this American willingness to experiment, failure be damned: my parents came to this country each with one aging parent to support and no room for errors. Instead of doing what they wanted to do, they often sacrificed their desires and did what they had to do in order to stay afloat. They reminisce sometimes about how they used to frequent Taco Bell, not because they liked the American rendition of Tex-Mex, but because they couldn’t afford more than the fifty-cent taco diet. Out of necessity, happiness was often tied to a paycheck and what that paycheck could provide. 





-My happiness stemmed from a very different place. 

-With my freedom, 




How upbringing shaped perspective, how bring that perspective to research - taking failure as pieces of success, one more way NOT to do something = closer to how to do something, how this has led to success in research.


Language - explain word in Chinese that doesn’t exist in English.

There are many words in Chinese that one cannot exactly translate to English. For example, I would use the word “ni” (fourth tone) to describe a special property of food: a dish is “ni” if its flavor 

The word “ni” in Chinese can mean a number of things, depending on how you say it. If you say it in the third tone, it means “you” in English. 

 It’s difficult to describe exactly what this word, “ni,” really means in English. 
It typically means the food is too greasy or cloyingly sweet, but food that is light in grease or savory or even bland could also be “ni.” 

At school, sometimes I would use a Chinese word to describe a situation perfectly, only to butcher my own words by attempting to translate for my English-speaking only friends. By high school, however, I noticed that a lot of the spaces in my mind that were once filled with Chinese words had disappeared.

I had a sense of the unique but overlapping linguistic spaces that Chinese and English words occupied in my mind. 

In my project, I "taught" Aplysia--Californian giant sea slugs--by stimulating them in intervals with neurotransmitters and extracted their nervous tissue immediately after training. 
